   Airbus SE resumed handovers of its A380 superjumbo to Dubai-based Emirates, boosting its chances of meeting year-end targets while leaving concerns about longer-term deliveries to the Gulf giant unresolved.
 Of two planes declared ready for shipping at the time of Airbus’s earnings update on Oct. 31, one was finally delivered in mid-November, the Toulouse, France-based company said Thursday. The second should arrive next week, inching the planemaker toward its goal of handing over 800 jetliners this year.
 Airbus cautioned last month that its ability to meet targets was reliant on factors including commercial challenges in dispatching completed A380s. Other hurdles include clearing a backlog of single-aisle A320s held up by engine issues, production hiccups in Hamburg, and a freeze on A330 wide-body handovers to China’s cash-strapped HNA Group.
 A dispute between Emirates and its A380 engine-provider Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc regarding turbines for 20 double-deckers ordered in January -- in which current deliveries had become a bargaining chip -- has yet to be resolved.
 Rolls initially scooped an order to build engines for 50 aircraft through heavy discounting and a commitment to reducing fuel consumption. With the A380 failing to garner further major orders elsewhere, the U.K. manufacturer has been reluctant to throw cash at the program, leading to the current standoff.
 Emirates declined to comment and Rolls-Royce didn’t immediately respond when contacted by Bloomberg.
 Airbus is targeting 12 A380 deliveries this year and had handed over eight by the end of October, including four to Emirates. The manufacturer is relying on the follow-on order for 20 jets to eke out superjumbo production until 2029.
  Subscribe to Arabian Business' newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and business stories in Dubai,the UAE and the GCC straight to your inbox.  Published by © 2018 ITP Digital Media Inc. All Rights Reserved   Khalaf Al Habtoor, the Dubai billionaire who added 1,600 hotel rooms to the city through one project alone, said the market is now saturated and he’s looking to expand elsewhere.
 “I would not recommend any expansion in hotels at all to anybody,” Al Habtoor said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. The group’s beach properties are doing well, “but with very low rates.” His city hotel occupancy is fluctuating and “the rates are not great,” he said.
 The tycoon said he’s currently deciding whether it’s best to build or acquire between seven and 10 schools. He’s also studying building a specialized hospital with about 100 beds. Al Habtoor is planning to fund the investments through a mix of debt and equity.
 “There is an area which is doing very well,” the Al Habtoor Group LLC chairman said as he discussed the economy. “In education, we are doing very well.”
 Al Habtoor has spent the past few years building hotels and homes across Dubai. He constructed a complex on the city’s main road and spent $500 million building a resort  at the center of three polo fields in Dubai. But a regional slowdown after oil prices dropped in 2014 hurt demand in Dubai’s hospitality sector, while a glut of new properties has dragged down rates.
 He called on Dubai’s government entities to halt hotel development, even on unfinished projects, as increasing supply causes room rates to decline.
 “Nakheel is announcing 8,000 rooms. Why?” he said “We have enough rooms -- I can give them rooms. I can give them rooms, 5,000 rooms.”
 Outside Dubai, Al Habtoor bought hotels in the UK, Austria and Hungary to add to properties in Lebanon. His company is also a distributor of Bentley, Bugatti and Mitsubishi cars. The billionaire says that while pressure is still being felt across the economy, third-quarter results across his car businesses give him hope.
   Subscribe to Arabian Business' newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and business stories in Dubai,the UAE and the GCC straight to your inbox.  Published by © 2018 ITP Digital Media Inc. All Rights Reserved   Shipments of smartphones to the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have increased for the first time since the first quarter of 2017.
 According to IDC's latest quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker for Q3 2018, the smartphone market's growth to 4 million units in represents a modest 1.1 percent increase quarter on quarter.
 IDC added that it is a significant sign of stabilisation for a market that has suffered five consecutive quarters of declines.
 Feature phones continued to grow from strength to strength in Q3, with shipments to the GCC increasing 6.7 percent on a quarterly basis to reach 1.9 million units. This meant the overall GCC mobile phone market saw a combined total of 5.9 million units shipped in Q3, with Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Kuwait driving the market's growth.
 Saudi Arabia was the region's top-performing market in Q3, with overall mobile phone shipments increasing 8.4 percent compared to Q2.
  "It seems the negative effects of Saudization and dependent taxes on the kingdom's mobile phone space are losing momentum and the market is beginning to settle down again," said Kafil Merchant, a research analyst at IDC.
 "Additionally, new regulations requiring phones to carry IECEE certification have helped boost official shipments at the expense of gray market imports, while restrictions on the kingdom's 2G network have seen an influx of cheaper 3G and 4G smartphones to fill the gap."
 Kuwait's overall mobile phone market saw growth of 2.6 percent in Q3 while the rest of the region was characterized by declines, with overall mobile phone shipments down 4.2 percent in Bahrain, 4.3 percent in Oman, and 7.3 percent in the UAE.
 "The UAE mobile phone market is being hampered by an overall lack of disposable income and job security in the country, with the effects being felt across almost every sector," said Nabila Popal, a senior research manager at IDC. "Even events like GITEX Shopper that traditionally help boost electronics sales failed to have a significant impact."
 IDC said Samsung maintained its lead in Q3 with 31.2 percent share of the GCC market, despite suffering a 3 percent decline in shipments. Apple and Huawei followed with respective shares of 25 percent and 18.7 percent.
 IDC added that it expects the overall GCC mobile market to see a single-digit decline year on year, with growth returning again in 2019.
  Subscribe to Arabian Business' newsletter to receive the latest breaking news and business stories in Dubai,the UAE and the GCC straight to your inbox.  Published by © 2018 ITP Digital Media Inc. All Rights Reserved